[Music]
yep it's not your day
you're hurtling toward the ground from
thousands of feet up and all you can
think is so this is it huh this is how I
go oh because I decided to take a little
risk live on the wild side
skydiving no BASE jumping negative you
my daredevil friend ignore that sign
near the airplane toilet warning you to
close the lid before you press the flush
button and it pulled you through and
spit you out and thus we've come full
circle you're free falling to your
untimely demise wait back up
you got pulled through the toilet as in
that tiny hole barely enough for a mouse
are you a mouse okay fine
exaggerated a bit on that one unless you
come out the other side I get a fight in
that case ill or young the sound of
knocking snaps you back to reality
someone in there uh-oh you got lost in
your thoughts again staring down that
waterless ball and wondering if the
warning sign was put there to prevent
the exact situation that just came
flooding to your mind what else would it
before you're no fool you know this
plane is airtight every crevice has been
sealed to keep the cabin pressurized
because otherwise none of us would be
able to breathe this I up in such thin
air must be irregular here on the bright
side I'd like and what about all those
movies showing holes in the fuselage
ripping passengers right out of the
plane in the blink of an eye when you
flush the toilet you open that hall
creating an opportunity for the pressure
difference to eject the contents right
why else would it be so loud and fast
okay let's back up and tackle this thing
one question at a time even if you were
somehow pulled through that tiny hole
you wouldn't get spit out of the plane
spaghettified or not when you push the
toilet on an airliner the contents don't
just get sprayed across the earth for
everyone down below to have to deal with
grab an umbrella that would be gross
harmful for people and the planet
and illegal that umbrella wouldn't do
you much good either the stuff would be
frozen from the cold temperatures at
that high of an altitude
oh well then take cover hey that's
exactly how planes used to do it in the
old days of aviation yep chuck it out
and Geronimo it'd also be blue hmm
pretty sure the stuff we used to deposit
into commode shouldn't be anywhere near
that shade it's not the waste itself but
rather the liquid disinfectant that
cleans the ball with each flush that's
not to say that airplanes don't decorate
the landscape with sewage these days
only now it's purely by accident it's
also incredibly rare so no need to swear
off ever leaving your house again it
happens if there's a leak in the holding
tank the result what's been dubbed blue
ice hailing down hello sorry pal but the
lines growing out here
think you can speed it up spaced out
again but if you got pulled through the
toilet you wouldn't end up hurtling
toward the ground you just go into that
on board holding tank that keeps all the
waste until it can be empty but what if
the pilot accidentally empties it right
there in the air or what if he needs to
like make the plane lighter in the case
of low fuel or an emergency landing
impossible it can only be opened from
the outside by ground crew imagine
having to do that job they stick a giant
hose into the bottom of the planes rear
and pump the stuff out and into a truck
for safe disposal makes me wonder would
you rather have a job like that and make
all the money you need or the job of
your dreams and barely have enough to
get by let me know down in the comments
anyway back to our story if it goes into
a tank then what creates that incredible
suction well the on-board laboratory
system does make smart use of the
pressure difference between the inside
and outside of the plane and that's why
it's so loud when you flush there's that
holding tank right it's where that big
blue sloshing mix of waste and
disinfectant hang out it has a pipe that
leads to a hole in the plane don't worry
it's supposed to be there so that means
the pressure inside that tank is what it
should be at 35
thousand feet up but remember when you
do your business the cabin has been
pumped with a bunch of air so that
everyone can breathe when you flush the
toilet it opens a sort of flap because
high pressure will always go where it's
lower when given the chance the immense
air pressure in the cabin pushes what's
ever in the toilet down into the holding
tank and boy does it push it at about
300 miles per hour mind you closer this
is Tammy from the crew a lot of people
waiting and worrying out here if you
don't open the door soon I'm gonna have
to open it myself yeah one second just
having a bad reaction to the chicken
even at breakneck speeds the suction
isn't enough to pull you through it's
not even enough to push the compressed
air out of the laboratory itself since
there are vents to the room and the
doors aren't airtight Plus that flap
isn't long enough to make any difference
you push the flush button the flap opens
the blue cleaning stuff washes your
deposit away and it closes back up it
also isn't enough to suction you to the
toilet seat if you happen to be sitting
on it when you flush technically it
could if you somehow managed to create a
perfect seal and everybody mentions as
proof of the same woman got stuck to a
toilet during a flight 10 years ago but
that's almost impossible since the
toilet seat itself has ridges under it
meaning when it's down on the rim of the
ball the ridges hold the seat up and
allow air to move through probably like
the toilet seat you have in your own
home but if this system depends on the
pressure difference does that mean the
toilet won't flush if you're on the
ground landing or taking off where the
pressure is equal no you can still use
the bathroom at these times but the
system has a motor to create that vacuum
granted it requires power to work and
that's why they usually ask you not to
head to the laboratories until you're at
a certain altitude
that and things get shaky when you're
taking off or landing passengers could
fall down on their way to the restroom
or if you're already in there then
you're surrounded by a lot of things you
can bump your head on in that tiny space
well if you can't get pulled through or
suction cup to the seat then why are
there all these warning signs telling
you to close the lid before you flush
well a couple of reasons for one it's
definitely loud and disturbs other
passengers but more importantly it's
something you should do even at home
because of what's called the toilet
plume and that my friend is a
bacteria-infested microscopic particles
that spray up and around a 10-foot
radius each time you flush the toilet
that's true so if you're one of those
people who keep their toothbrush on the
bathroom counter you might want to give
it a cozy new home in the medicine
cabinet as for that closet size airplane
laboratory you know that stuff would be
on every surface sir this is your final
warning I'm so sorry if you're not
feeling well but others are growing
impatient be right out just got to wash
my hands oh that reminds me better make
this quick or the whole brigade is going
to come crashing through that door if
there's one place that'll spit you out
the back of the airplane it'd be the tap
system ever wondered what happens to the
water that goes down the sink well
there's your answer it gets heated up
before it's released so that it doesn't
freeze and stick to the plank that's not
good since it would add extra weight and
in the aviation world extra weight
equals more fuel burnt which means more
expense wait and expense also play a
role in why that water shuts off so
quickly while you're washing your hands
it's because the plane can carry and
therefore only has so much of it it
comes from a tank under the cabin no
worries it's not the one holding all the
toilet soap so I guess if I could treat
myself down to the size of an earring I
could get washed down the drain shot out
the back of the plane and once again be
free falling back down to earth
luckily that's just not posture I'm
sorry to barge in like this but I'm
going to have to ask you to take your
seat thank you for understanding
um no problem I was just on my way out
finally about time oh hey if you learned
something new today then give the video
a like and share it with a friend
here are some other cool videos I know
you'll love just click to the left or
right and remember stay on the bright
side of life
[Music]